Query : cardiovascular disease
5468651 : Sleep apnea is known to contribute to the development of cardiovascular disease and pulmonary hypertension. It happens because the disease increases the risk of hypertension, pulmonary vascular disease, ischemic heart disease, stroke, congestive heart failure and arrhythmias.
5641487 : Cardiovascular disease. (Redirected from Rare heart disease) Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is a class of diseases that involve the heart or blood vessels. Cardiovascular disease includes coronary artery diseases (CAD) such as angina and myocardial infarction (commonly known as a heart attack).
50143 : With the hs-CRP test, a result of lower than 1.0 mg/L is associated with a low risk of developing cardiovascular disease; average risk of developing cardiovascular disease is associated with a level between 1.0 and 3.0 mg/L; and high risk for cardiovascular disease is linked to hs-CRP above 3.0 mg/L.
821954 : Behcet’s disease is an autoimmune disorder in which the immune system attacks the cells of the cardiovascular system. It is a rare, systemic form of vasculitis, which causes chronic inflammation in blood vessels throughout the body. Bullous Pemphigoid. Bullous pemphigoid is a chronic autoimmune disease of the skin.
52209 : Best Answer: Walking a mile a day would improve your general cardiovascular health. It would give you more stamina and endurance. It would help your resistance to disease. It would build muscle mass in your legs.
60427 : A good suggestion is to take benefits of black seeds. Among health conditions, cardiovascular disease or heart disease refers to several conditions that affect the heart. Cardiovascular diseases contain blood vessel diseases, arrhythmias, congenital heart defects, etc.
17061 : Introduction. An acute coronary syndrome (ACS) is the most ominous manifestation of coronary artery disease (CAD). The burden of ACS and its impact are striking. Cardiovascular disease is now the most common cause of mortality worldwide, and among cardiovascular deaths, the majority are attributable to CAD.
835748 : While infectious disease still remains a major problem in many countries, chronic diseases, including such noncommunicable conditions as cardiovascular disease, cancer, diabetes and respiratory disease, are now the major cause of death and disability, not only in developed countries, but also worldwide.
47209 : See also. 1  Athletic heart syndrome. 2  Cardiac fibrosis. 3  Cardiology. 4  Cardiomegaly. 5  Cardiovascular disease. 6  Right ventricular hypertrophy. 7  ECG See diagnosis.
4747270 : Atherosclerosis (or arteriosclerotic vascular disease) is a condition where the arteries become narrowed and hardened due to an excessive build up of plaque around the artery wall. The disease disrupts the flow of blood around the body, posing serious cardiovascular complications.
11288 : The concept of arterial cleansing, or rather arterial self-cleansing, is NOT a pie-in-the-sky idea. It is for real and it does work. For a lot of people. And it contributes not only to our freedom from cardiovascular disease, but also to our optimum health, that is our ability to function at our best.
2686161 : DALLAS, December 16, 2015 – One of every three deaths in the U.S. in 2013 were from heart disease, stroke and other cardiovascular diseases, while heart disease and stroke were the No. 1 and No. 2 killers worldwide, according to American Heart Association’s 2016 Heart Disease and Stroke Statistics Update.
990 : They can help prevent heart attack and stroke. They can also prevent complications and slow the progression of coronary heart disease. Some of the major types of commonly prescribed cardiovascular medications used to treat arrhythmias are summarized in this section.
16366 : Peter L Arquin, MD is a Doctor primarily located in Cobleskill, NY, with another office in Cooperstown, NY. Their specialties include Cardiovascular Disease and Internal Medicine. Peter L Arquin is affiliated with Bassett Healthcare M I Bassett Hospital. share this.
477242 : In the medical terms ASCVD means 'Arterioscelrotic cardiovascular disease'. This is a heart disease. ASCVD is a group of dieases where the thickening and loss of elasticity of the arterial walls, occuring in three forms. This causes slow and impaired blood circulation.
24148 : Long term issues of menopause. -Osteoporosis [estrogen can be used to tx osteoporosis, not first line, but if have other indications it can improve menopause sx's too] -Cardiovascular disease [risk more than doubles at menopause] -Dementia [seen w/ inc freq. with low estrogen levels].
17063 : Acute coronary syndrome. Acute coronary syndrome (ACS) is a broad term used to describe a spectrum of clinical presentations which result from coronary artery disease and cause a sudden reduction in myocardial perfusion. From: Advances in Clinical Chemistry, 2017. Related terms: Coronary circulation; Thrombosis; Cardiovascular disease; Myocardial infarction
7065630 : Symptoms and Health Risks of Vitamin D Deficiency. Symptoms of bone pain and muscle weakness can mean you have a vitamin D deficiency. However, for many people, the symptoms are subtle. Yet, even without symptoms, too little vitamin D can pose health risks. Low blood levels of the vitamin have been associated with the following: Increased risk of death from cardiovascular disease.
28660 : (Redirected from Abdominal adiposity) Abdominal obesity, also known as central obesity, is when excessive abdominal fat around the stomach and abdomen has built up to the extent that it is likely to have a negative impact on health. There is a strong correlation between central obesity and cardiovascular disease.
3443459 : Another study that examined autopsy reports of people with dementia found the main causes of death were pneumonia, cardiovascular diseases, pulmonary embolism, cachexia, and dehydration. Other factors that impact the death rate in Alzheimer's disease include advanced age, increased falls and delirium.
49378 : In contrast, conventional cardiovascular therapies such as ACE inhibitors, statins, insulin-sensitizing agents, and estrogens have been shown to alleviate endothelial dysfunction, often independent of their effects on systemic disease processes.These agents restore endothelial function through their salutary effects on pathologic vascular oxidative processes.
16844 : Find out which disorders are the most prevalent and what therapies are being used to alleviate symptoms. Jul 14, 2013 at 2:10PM. The medical community certainly spends a lot of time and money researching treatments for cardiovascular disease and cancer.
22726 : Say so long to sleep. And, as you may know, lack of shut-eye doesn’t just leave you foggy the next day: Chronic, long-term insufficient sleep ups your odds of diabetes, depression, cardiovascular disease, even weight gain.
2884753 : These are in addition to diseases previously known to be caused by smoking, including bladder, esophageal, laryngeal, lung, oral, and throat cancers, chronic lung diseases, coronary heart and cardiovascular diseases, as well as reproductive effects and sudden infant death syndrome. Source(s): cristina · 8 years ago.
169434 : Oral cancer. This disease, which affects the mouth, tongue, cheek, gums and lips, is one of the most deadly forms of cancer. The five-year survival rate is only 59 percent. Other cancers. Carcinogens in the tobacco also increase a user's risk for cancers of the pharynx, larynx, and esophagus. Breast cancer and cardiovascular disease have been linked to chewing tobacco.
60609 : Many health experts and nutritionists claim that the boiled egg diet will help you burn up to 24 pounds in just two weeks. Plumpness is one of the biggest health problems in the United States. Obesity is linked with heightened risk for numerous diseases like cardiovascular diseases, diabetes and several cancer types.
4095426 : Heart failure is a common problem, especially in elderly patients.1 The appearance of pulmonary crackles (rales), defined as discontinuous, interrupted, explosive respiratory sounds during inspiration, is one of the most important signs of heart failure deterioration.2 Many older patients with asymptomatic cardiovascular disease seem to have ...
2166 : Purpose. The purpose of a glycemic index (GI) diet is to eat carbohydrate-containing foods that are less likely to cause large increases in blood sugar levels. The diet is a means to lose weight and prevent chronic diseases related to obesity such as diabetes and cardiovascular disease. glycemic index diet is an eating plan based on how foods affect your blood sugar level. The glycemic index is a system of assigning a number to carbohydrate-containing foods according to how much each food increases blood sugar.
2167 : The purpose of a glycemic index (GI) diet is to eat carbohydrate-containing foods that are less likely to cause large increases in blood sugar levels.The diet is a means to lose weight and prevent chronic diseases related to obesity such as diabetes and cardiovascular disease. glycemic index diet is an eating plan based on how foods affect your blood sugar level. The glycemic index is a system of assigning a number to carbohydrate-containing foods according to how much each food increases blood sugar.
54999 : Cardiovascular Disease | Brooklyn, NY. Dr. Chaim Gitelis is a cardiologist in Brooklyn, New York and is affiliated with multiple hospitals in the area, including Beth Israel Medical Center and Maimonides Medical Center. He received his medical degree from New York College of Osteopathic Medicine and has been in practice between 11-20 years.
13060 : Pulmonary Circulation. Pulmonary circulation is the part of the cardiovascular system which carries deoxygenated blood away from the heart, to the lungs, and returns oxygenated blood back to the heart. It is what the Pulmonary Artery and the Pulmonary Veins do.
6680388 : Coughing is generally a symptom of an underlying problem, such as a respiratory or cardiovascular system disease. The act of coughing serves as a protective mechanism for preventing the accumulation of secretions and foreign materials inside of the respiratory tract, but coughing can also serve as an early warning sign for respiratory diseases.
841697 : Lack of blood flow to the brain, from blood clots or broken blood vessels, causes a stroke. In some cases, bleeding in the brain can also cause a stroke. Without a good blood supply, brain cells cannot get enough oxygen and begin to die. (Source: excerpt from HEART AND CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE: NWHIC)
18221 : Potassium and magnesium provide wide range support for numerous physiological functions, including nerve function, nutrient metabolism, bone health, muscle function and cardiovascular health.
12957 : Pulmonary circulation is the part of the cardiovascular system which carries deoxygenated blood away from the heart, to the lungs, and returns oxygenated blood back to the heart. It is what the Pulmonary Artery and the Pulmonary Veins do.
7379223 : Other conditions often seen with jaw pain and TMJ symptoms include: 1  atypical facial pain. 2  cardiovascular diseases. 3  chronic fatigue syndrome. 4  equilibrium (balancing) disorder. 5  irritable bowel syndrome. 6  migraine headache. 7  multiple chemical sensitivity. 8  smell and taste disorders.
5410023 : BMI values less than 18.5 kg/m² are considered underweight. BMI values from 18.5 kg/m² to 24.9 kg/m² are healthy. Overweight is defined as a body mass index of 25.0 to less than 30.0 kg/m². People with BMIs in this range have an increased risk of type 2 diabetes, hypertension, and cardiovascular disease. Obesity is defined as a BMI of 30.0 kg/m² or greater.
13162 : An excess can cause hypertension. It participates in antioxidant reactions. A. sweet potatoes, which contain beta-carotene, a cancer-fighting antioxidant. B. a granola bar with added psyllium, a soluble fiber that may reduce the risk of cardiovascular disease. C. milk enriched with CLA, a dietary oil that may improve immune function. D. a granola bar with added calcium to improve bone health. D. a granola bar with added calcium to improve bone health.
64179 : The heart, blood, and blood vessels make up the cardiovascular component of the circulatory system. It includes the pulmonary circulation, a loop through the lungs where blood is oxygenated.
12965 : Systemic circulation is the part of the cardiovascular system which carries oxygenated blood away from the heart to the body, and returns deoxygenated blood back to the heart. Is is what the arteries and veins do.
5418192 : Monogenic obesity: Introduction. Monogenic obesity: Obesity caused by a mutation in a single gene. So far, four different genetic mutations have been linked to this condition. More detailed information about the symptoms, causes, and treatments of Monogenic obesity is available below.eview possible medical complications related to Monogenic obesity: 1  Increased risk of cardiovascular disease. 2  Increased risk of cancer. 3  Increased risk of type 2 diabetes. 4  more complications...».
5394632 : In older men, physical problems are often -- but not always -- responsible for erectile dysfunction (ED). Cardiovascular conditions like high blood pressure, atherosclerosis, and heart disease can cause arteries to clog, reducing blood flow to the penis and impairing a man's ability to achieve an erection. Nerve damage from diabetes, multiple sclerosis, or treatments for prostate cancer can also interfere with erections.
2155841 : Hypokinetic diseases are conditions that occur from a sedentary lifestyle. hypo means less and kinetic means movement. So Hypokinetic diseases are caused due to lack of physical activity.Examples could include obesity and complications arising from sedentary behaviour. Hypokinetic conditions could include: 1  Cardiovascular disease. 2  Some forms of cancer. 3  Back problems. 4  Obesity. 5  Type 2 diabetes. 6  Osteoporosis. 7  Mental health.o Hypokinetic diseases are caused due to lack of physical activity. Examples could include obesity and complications arising from sedentary behaviour. Hypokinetic conditions could include: 1  Cardiovascular disease. 2  Some forms of cancer. 3  Back problems. 4  Obesity. 5  Type 2 diabetes. 6  Osteoporosis. 7  Mental health.
5302845 : There is no certain way to prevent all types of dementia. However, a healthy lifestyle can help lower your risk of developing dementia when you are older. It can also prevent cardiovascular diseases, such as strokes and heart attacks. To reduce your risk of developing dementia and other serious health conditions, it's recommended that you: 1  eat a healthy diet. 2  maintain a healthy weight. 3  exercise regularly. 4  don't drink too much alcohol. 5  stop smoking (if you smoke).
1267712 : 8 Foods That Help Lower Blood Pressure. Skim Milk. It truly does a body good! Drinking heart-healthy low-fat milk will provide you with calcium and vitamin D — the two nutrients work as a team to help reduce blood pressure by 3 to 10 percent. Although this doesn’t sound like much, it could add up to about a 15 percent reduction in risk for cardiovascular disease.
1793583 : A Dr. Mehmet Oz, MD , Cardiology (Cardiovascular Disease), answered. The white patches caused by the skin condition vitiligo can spread to other locations or can stay in one area. The course is unpredictable and varies from person to person. Some people with vitiligo say that new patches form on skin that is under pressure or exposed to friction. This can happen from shaving or rubbing from jewelry or clothing.
15550 : Added Sugars Add to Your Risk of Dying from Heart Disease. Getting too much added sugar in your diet could significantly increase your risk of dying from cardiovascular disease, according to a study published in April 2014. By Any Other Name It's Still Sweetener. Tracking your sugar intake can be tricky with so many names for sugar and sweeteners on the label.
4658404 : Types of early-onset Alzheimer’s disease. Most types of early-onset Alzheimer’s disease are the same, but there are a few small distinctions: Common Alzheimer’s disease. The majority of people with early-onset Alzheimer’s disease have the common form of Alzheimer’s disease.The disease will progress in roughly the same way as it does in older people with Alzheimer’s disease.Genetic Alzheimer’s disease.ypes of early-onset Alzheimer’s disease. Most types of early-onset Alzheimer’s disease are the same, but there are a few small distinctions: Common Alzheimer’s disease. The majority of people with early-onset Alzheimer’s disease have the common form of Alzheimer’s disease.
5282880 : Deaths, at a given age, from CVD are more common and have been increasing in much of the developing world, while rates have declined in most of the developed world since the 1970s. Coronary artery disease and stroke account for 80% of CVD deaths in males and 75% of CVD deaths in females. Most cardiovascular disease affects older adults. In the United States 11% of people between 20 and 40 have CVD, while 37% between 40 and 60, 71% of people between 60 and 80, and 85% of people over 80 have CVD.
3519021 : High blood pressure, often asymptomatic, can cause headaches, shortness of breath, nosebleeds, and anxiety. An insulin reaction is the result of low blood sugar and causes anxiety, hunger, shaking, dizziness, and more. Anemia of chronic disease (ACD) can cause fatigue, pale skin, weakness, dizziness, headache and more. Anemia , a lack of red blood cells, can cause fatigue, pale skin and gums, brittle nails, irritability, and more. Carbon monoxide poisoning can be fatal, symptoms include headache, dizziness, nausea, and vomiting. Cryptococcosis is a lung disease causing a wide range of digestive, respiratory and cardiovascular symptoms. Aseptic meningitis, or viral meningitis, can cause fever, headaches, neck pain, nausea, and more.
